# munin

Container image for Munin server optimized for a large number of hosts in an effective manner. Includes SNMP node support

* `rrdcached` is used to be able to handle a large number of hosts

* `fcgi` is used for generation of graphs on demand and not cron

Forked from [dockurr/munin](https://github.com/dockur/munin), which in turn was inspired from build-failures [docker-munin-server](https://github.com/build-failure/docker-munin-server).

## Tags

* latest ([Dockerfile](https://github.com/aheimsbakk/munin/blob/master/Dockerfile))

## Environment variables

* `NODES`

    Format `[group1;]node1:ip1[:port1] [group2;]node2:ip2[:port2]...`

* `SNMP_NODES`

    Format `[group1;]node1:commutiy1: [group2;]node2:community2:...`

    Check SNMP units directly from the container. Defaults to SNMP version 2c.

* `TZ`

    Time zone. Defaults to `UTC`.

* `SNMP_PLUGINS_EXCLUDED`

    Format `regex1 regex2...`

    Regex to exclude certain plugins (e.g. to exclude swap metrics and disk space metrics on an OpenWRT device, use `swap df`)

## Exposed ports

* `80`

## Volumes

For persistense.

* `/etc/munin/munin-conf.d/`

    Configuration files included on runtime. The files `nodes.conf` and `snmp-nodes.conf` are generated by this container.

* `/etc/munin/plugin-conf.d/`

    Configuration files for plugins. The file `snmp_communities` is generated by this container, but custom changes will not be overwritten.

* `/var/lib/munin/`

    All RRD files and temporary files.

* `/var/log/munin/`

    Log files.

## How to use this container

```sh
docker run -d \
  -v /etc/munin/munin-conf.d:/etc/munin/munin-conf.d \
  -v /etc/munin/plugin-conf.d:/etc/munin/plugin-conf.d \
  -v /var/lib/munin:/var/lib/munin \
  -v /var/log/munin:/var/log/munin \
  -e NODES="server1:10.0.0.2 server2:10.1.0.2" \
  -e SNMP_NODES="routers;10.0.0.1:mycommunity routers;10.1.0.1:mycommunity" \
  -p 80:80 \
  -p 4950:4949 \
  --name munin-server \
  egor045/munin
```

Access container at `http://host/munin/`
